# Eduardo's Hyprland Themes

## Table of Contents
* [Glossary](#Glossary)
* [Notes](#Notes)
* [Getting Started](#Getting Started)
* [colors.json](#colors.json)
* [wallpapers](#wallpapers)
* [fastfetch](#fastfetch)
* [Service Configuration](#Service Configuration)
    * [hyprland](#hyprland)
    * [kitty](#kitty)
    * [dunst](#dunst)
    * [waybar](#waybar)
    * [rofi](#rofi)
* [Scripts](#Scripts)
    * [themectl](#themectl)
    * [themecolor](#themecolor)

## Glossary
- "THEME_HOME": The location where themes are installed.
- `themectl`: The script which handles theming in `$HOME/.config/scripts`

## Notes
- This is not an overview for how to configure individual services. This is
  simply a document describing how my theming system works and get you off the
  ground. All config files in a theme are ***optional***.

## Getting Started
This is a default theme skeleton, generated by the `themectl` script. Both the
script and the structure of the themes are closely intertwined.

Note the following subdirectories:

* `dunst`
* `fastfetch`
* `hyprland`
* `kitty`
* `rofi`
* `waybar`

These contain config files that pertain to these services, and the way they
are handled is specific to the service. 

For the most part, these can be thought of as overrides to your default 
configurations. 

#### A note on `waybar` and `rofi`
These services use flavors of CSS, and [CSS specificity rules]
(https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Specificity) 
will apply. Keep in mind if your rules are not working, there may be a more
specific rule in your `waybar` or `rofi` config directories.

## `colors.json`
This file contains the 16-color ANSI color scheme for your terminal, and
these colors can be used in various services, which will be explained in
detail further along. An explanation on ANSI color scheming can be found [here]
(https://gist.github.com/fnky/458719343aabd01cfb17a3a4f7296797#256-colors).

`color0` through `color15` are your 8 standard colors, and the colors under
"special" are additional colors that may be used by certain services.
[terminal.sexy](http://terminal.sexy) is a great resource for building a color
scheme.

The colors under the `special` key are used primarily by `kitty.conf`. The ones
in the default theme are required, but more can be added if you wish.

## `wallpapers`
This is a directory where you can drop in images for `hyprpaper` to set as your
desktop backgrounds. It will select a random image for each monitor and fit it
to your display.

As a general rule, have at least one file per monitor. Less than that leads to
undefined behavior.

## `fastfetch`
Similarly to `wallpapers, this is an image repository, but for `fastfetch`.
Drop any `fastfetch` images you want to use in lieu of a system logo here.
They will be displayed at random.

## Service Configuration
The subdirectories here (barring `wallpapers) contain configs that will 
override service configs on the system (non-destructively). These are handled
differently for each service. I will aim to provide a brief description for
each.

#### `hyprland`
This contains your theme-specific `hyprland` configurations, and will be saved 
to `$HOME/.config/hypr/theme` by `themectl`.

The only required file under this directory is `hyprland.conf`, which is your
"root" configuration for this theme. You can make additional files so long as
you `source` them properly in your theme's `hyprland.conf`.

#### `kitty`
`the
 writes all files under `./kitty` to `$HOME/.config/kitty/theme`.

All files under this directory will be `globinclude`'d by `kitty.conf`. Thus,
It doesn't matter what you name them, so long as they have the `conf` extension.
Order isn't guaranteed so take care not to provide duplicate configs in
multiple files.

#### `dunst`
***WARNING***: `themectl` destroys your current `dunstrc` file and replaces it.
Rename your `dunstrc`, if a custom one exists, to `dunstrc.default`.

`$HOME/.config/dunst/dunstrc.default` is to be regarded as your system-wide
dunst config file. Keep all settings you want to be applied regardless of theme
here. (ex. message timeouts)

`dunstrc` is created by `cat $FILE >> ~/.config/dunst/dunstrc` where `$FILE`
consists of `dunstrc.default` and every file under the `./dunst` directory
here. This means `dunstrc` is sort of just a mashup of your system and
theme configuration.

Apply any theme-specific `dunst` settings here. Name the files whatever you
wish.

#### `waybar`
`themectl` will perform two actions for `waybar`:

* Generate a file `$HOME/.config/waybar/theme/colors.css` from `colors.json`
* Copy the config files from `./rofi/*` to `$HOME/.config/waybar/theme/`

The only required file is `waybar/style.css`, which is explicitly imported
by `$HOME/.config/waybar/style.css`. You may break up your theme styles into 
multiple files, but they must be explicitly imported by `waybar/style.css`.

Your theme's `style.css` is imported at the end of the waybar service config 
`style.css`. CSS specificity rules apply.

`colors.css` contains color definitions based on `colors.json`, and may be used
something like the following:

```css
/* waybar/styles.css */
@import 'colors.css';
/* ... */
#my_id {
    background: linear-gradient(@color0, @color7);
}
```

#### `rofi`
Similarly to `waybar`, `themectl` will perform two actions for `rofi`:

* Generate a `colors.rasi` from `colors.json`
* Copy the config files from `./rofi` to `$HOME/.config/rofi/theme`

You may regard the procedure for customization as practically identical to
`waybar`, but using the `.rasi` file extension.

## Scripts

#### `themectl`
The bulk of the theming work is performed by `themectl`. It has a handful of
directives (which are subject to change):

* `themectl get`: returns the name of the current theme
* `themectl clear`: unsets the current theme (reverts to system defaults)
* `themectl set <themename>`: sets the theme, based on its name in `$THEME_HOME`
* `themectl reload`: rewrites all theme files and reloads relevant services
    * `dunst` is only reloaded when the config checksum changes
* `themectl create <themename> [src_theme]`: creates a new theme directory
    * `src_theme` can be used to duplicate an existing theme

#### `themecolor`
A rather useful script for printing out different colors in your current theme
`color.json` file.

* `themecolor ( [color]0-15 | special_color_key ) [nocolor]`: returns the
  requested color with colorized output (use `nocolor` option to disable).
* `themecolor all [nocolor]`: pretty prints all theme colors.

`nocolor` can be useful if using this command's output in shell scripts.

As a side note, it will also evaluate background color luminance against the
requested color's luminance, and either color the foreground or the background
of the output accordingly for enhanced readability.

